## Multiple Go Binaries

Sometimes all you need is a repo full of Golang.

Specifically, a repository containing a bunch of Go source used to build a
bunch of Go programs.

This can be handy for a "hack" repo containing one-off programs that share
common packages, and is a great alternative to
[cobra](https://github.com/spf13/cobra).

Cobra is great for designing monolithic programs with related subcommands, but
the pattern demostrated in this repo is more for building smaller, discrete
binaries from a large pool of packages without creating a tonne of
repositories.

It's a great home for ideas that are still in the oven 🤓.

# Getting Started

To get started on a new program, make a new subdirectory of `cmd/` and write a
new `main` package.

# Getting Really Started

To get rid of the trivial programs included in this repo and actually start
from scratch, simple delete all subdirectories of `cmd/` and `pkg/`, and
recreate your `go.mod`:

```
$ rm -rf pkg/*
$ rm -rf cmd/*
$ rm go.mod go.sum
$ go mod init whatever_name_you_want
```

# Build

The included `Makefile` is designed to discover and build binaries for all of
the `main` packages within subdirectories of `cmd`.

To discover what needs to be built, and to test and build all programs, simply
run `make`.

```
$ make
go test ./...
<<<<<<< HEAD
?       github.com/cttttt/multi-go-go/cmd/goodbye  [no test files]
ok      github.com/cttttt/multi-go-go/cmd/goodbye/pkg/goodbye      (cached)
?       github.com/cttttt/multi-go-go/cmd/hello    [no test files]
ok      github.com/cttttt/multi-go-go/pkg/hello    (cached)
=======
?       everything/cmd/goodbye  [no test files]
ok      everything/cmd/goodbye/pkg/goodbye      (cached)
?       everything/cmd/hello    [no test files]
ok      everything/pkg/hello    (cached)
>>>>>>> 239d150 (add a readme)
go build -C "cmd/goodbye"
ln -sf "../cmd/goodbye/goodbye" bin/
go build -C "cmd/hello"
ln -sf "../cmd/hello/hello" bin/
```

To build a specific program, run `make bin/program_name`.

For example, to run tests and only build `bin/hello`, run `make bin/hello`.

```
$ make bin/hello
go test ./...
<<<<<<< HEAD
?       github.com/cttttt/multi-go-go/cmd/goodbye  [no test files]
ok      github.com/cttttt/multi-go-go/cmd/goodbye/pkg/goodbye      (cached)
?       github.com/cttttt/multi-go-go/cmd/hello    [no test files]
ok      github.com/cttttt/multi-go-go/pkg/hello    (cached)
=======
?       everything/cmd/goodbye  [no test files]
ok      everything/cmd/goodbye/pkg/goodbye      (cached)
?       everything/cmd/hello    [no test files]
ok      everything/pkg/hello    (cached)
>>>>>>> 239d150 (add a readme)
go build -C "cmd/hello"
ln -sf "../cmd/hello/hello" bin/
```

# Install

To "install" all binaries, simply add the `bin/` directory to the `PATH`.  For
example, if your shell is `bash`:

```
$ echo "export PATH=$PWD/bin:\$PATH" >> ~/.bashrc
$ source ~/.bashrc
```

# Sharing

To have someone else install a binary without having to clone your repo, push a
tag, and have them install it using `go install`.  For example, if you want to
install the `hello` program from this repository, run:

```
$ go install github.com/cttttt/multi-go-go/cmd/hello@v0.0.1
go: downloading github.com/cttttt/multi-go-go v0.0.1
$
```

Note that versions are actually globally cached (centrally, by the Go
maintainers), so tags may not be reused.

# Internal package dependencies

Although the convension here is to have each binary depend on common packages
within `pkg/`, if a package will never be used across binaries, simply place it
within a `pkg/` subdirectory of its `cmd/...` directory.

Although this subdirectory could have any name, `pkg/` is preferred as it's
unlikely to share a name with a command's built binary.  For example, the
package `cmd/goodbye/goodbye` would not be suitable, as a file with the same
name will be generated by the `Makefile`.

See `cmd/goodbye` for an example of a command that depends on an unshared
package (`cmd/goodbye/pkg/goodbye`).

See `cmd/hello` for an example of a command that depends on a shared package
(`pkg/hello`).

# Testing

Since tests are run using the `go` toolchain's test runner, follow the Go
convensions and place your `_test` packages within `_test.go` files within each
package dir with fixtures placed into adjacent `testdata/` directories.

Although not required, a fantastic suite of testing related packages is
[testify](//github.com/stretchr/testify).

# License

Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.

You should have received a copy of the license along with this
work.  If not, see <http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/>.
